===========================
 Open Source WG: 2/27/2024
===========================

John M. chaired the meeting. Andy could not attend because of travel.

Security: Roman Z.
==================

See `Roman's slides`_ for details.

AR: Projects send 1 or 2 names to Roman

* Starting a new work package for security. Need to establish UXL
  processes for reporting, handling vulnerabilities, SDL, etc.
* Roman has been looking at security procesess of open source projects
  and is responsible for Intel security processes for some of the UXL
  projects.
* Roman has agreed to lead subgroup to work on this. He needs 1-2
  people from each project. Anyone is welcome to join. It is not
  limited to people with a defined role in a project. Short term the
  effort will be in setting up processes, longer term effort will be
  about tools.
* Security group members will be added to private slack channel. Long
  term could be both private/public channel

Open Source recommendations: John M.
====================================

AR: Review checklist for your project and consider addressing issues.

* Using `Red Hat open source checklist`_, Rod looked at the UXL
  project repos to see what can be improved. It is summarized in a
  spreadsheet and detailed reports. oneTBB report is missing. Some
  people had trouble accessing the links. Robert verified that the
  links below do not require a google login:

  * `Summary spreadsheet`_
  * `oneMKL report`_
  * `oneDPL report`_
  * `oneDNN report`_
  * `oneCCL report`_
  * `oneDAL report`_

* We reviewed the oneMKL report, but discussed the issues for all
  projects. Most of the discussion was about communication:

  * report recommended slack, concern about having too many
    communication tools and drawbacks of slack (e.g. 90
    history). preference for mailing list, github discussions, and
    other means.
  * slack is a recommendation, not a mandate.
  * concern about the need to keep some information private
    (e.g. discussion of unannounced products)
  * discussion about the different tools, they support different
    communication styles
  * recommendation to understand where a project is looking for more
    contributors, and how more communication can further that goal,
    letting people know how to communication with other developers

* Identifying project roles

  * Seemed to be general agreement that this was good and can be done

* Public decision making

  * projects are doing this to varying degrees
  * would like to hear about what other projects are doing and share
    their experiences in future meeting

* Other topics had less discussion, but should be reviewed

  * Discuss in `slack channel`_ or raise in next meeting

.. _`slack channel`: : https://uxlfoundation.slack.com/archives/C06E1NBV2ER
.. _`Red Hat open source checklist`: https://www.redhat.com/en/resources/open-source-project-health-checklist
.. _`Summary spreadsheet`: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1UgOGCpskfu1LotfEh1MPwuV-GGdzB2FQQiw0iOd0Cb0
.. _`oneMKL report`: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1F_WtqzdJuvEKgmBJR9P8nEjmalYLtxmS
.. _`oneDPL report`: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1l_B_MM0Sk7qbIdjgBBAUgtW7VwmJOBfa
.. _`oneDNN report`: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1e9vHtVcqWvusIs_U2mP1B8L5DtO5Qb8b
.. _`oneCCL report`: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1NNK_BrBb0Rz_kcDDprfyuZPyktqePDtY
.. _`oneDAL report`: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1QRJVhcUv_JKSQmqlb43NkL37n5rliKw4
.. _`Roman's slides`: ../presentations/security-2024-02.pdf
