===========================
 Open Source WG: 11/26/2024
===========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.


Meeting Minutes
===============

Summary of Main Takeaways:

* Various UXL project updates and accomplishments presented.
* Progress discussed on GitHub migration for several projects.
* CI infrastructure improvements and issues with security compliance were highlighted.


Key Discussion Points
=====================

1. Member Meeting Slide Review

   * oneDNN: Transition to UXL Foundation; development of generic implementations.
   * oneMath: GitHub migration planned; improvement in public CI.
   * oneCCL: Performance improvements and preparations for GitHub migration.
   * oneDPL: New algorithms introduced; need for increased external contribution.

2. GitHub Project Migration

   * Discussed migration progress and challenges across different projects.

3. Build Infrastructure Updates

   * Update on community runners and infrastructure capabilities.
   * Plans for broader hardware integration discussed including ARM and NVIDIA.

4. Security Issues on GitHub

   * Emphasis on addressing security deficiencies; need for project teams to engage more.


Action Items
============

* Romain Biessy: Coordinate final approvals for One Math PRs.
* Maria Garzaran: Work on resolving CI setup challenges for OneCCL.
* Aaron Dron: Document infrastructure setup and machine particulars for community runners.
* Projects to ensure security compliance by engaging with Roman's security initiatives.
* Projects are encouraged to increase documentation and process visibility to improve external contributions.













Meeting Minutes
===============

Summary of Main Takeaways:

* Megan Knight joins as co-chair, bringing expertise from Linux Foundation and AWS.
* Discussions on transitioning communication tools due to accessibility issues with Slack.
* Progress updates on GitHub migration for numerous projects.
* Importance of consistent design and API guidelines emphasized.
* CI infrastructure setup progressing with availability of Intel GPU machines.


Key Discussion Points
=====================

1. Welcome and Introductions:

   * Megan Knight introduced as new co-chair, highlighting her Linux Foundation and AWS background.

2. Announcements:

   * If you are planning to attend SC'24, make sure to `register`_ for the UXL Foundation event, "Drive Open Standards
     for All Accelerators," which will be held from 9:00 to 11:00 a.m. on Monday, November 18, at Chastain Room 1-2 at
     the Westin Peachtree—Atlanta.
   * UXL oneAPI DevSummit `replays are available`_.

3. Open Source Projects:

   * Nikolay Petrov: Discussed plans to integrate scikit-learn wrappers for oneDAL under the UXL umbrella; naming
     discussions ongoing. He will present this proposal this Thursday in the AI SIG.

4. Communications Tools:

   * Rod Burns: Slack inaccessibility issues raised; exploring alternatives.
   * Suggested tools include GitHub discussions, Gitter, and mailing lists.

5. Best Practices and Migration Progress: (`slides`_)

   * Kenopen-source alignment and sharing unified guidelines.
   * Projects progressing with best practices implementation.
   * Here is the status of each project in moving to GitHub under the UXL Foundation:

     * oneMKL - no blockers; plans to complete the renaming work and then transition to UXLF GitHub
     * oneDNN - <no answer; Vadim not present>
     * oneDPL - no blockers; will wrap up best practices and then transition to UXLF GitHub
     * oneTBB - no blockers; will wrap up best practices and then transition to UXLF GitHub
     * oneDAL - no blockers; waiting to figure out scikit-learn plans and then transition to UXLF GitHub
     * oneCCL - <no answer; Maria Petrova is leading this effort>

6. Feedback on Current RFCs:

   * oneCCL – the `C API Design Document (RFC)`_ is available for review
   * oneMKL –

     * The `RFC for renaming`_ was merged. Now, work is in progress for the actual implementation.
     * `PR for the spec`_
     * `PR for the open-source project`_

   * oneDPL –

     * `oneDPL formal RFC documents`_
     * `RFC GitHub discussions`_

7. CI Infrastructure Updates:

   * Aaron: Progress in setting up Intel GPU machines for CI within UXL.


Action Items
============

* Rod Burns: Explore communication tool alternatives and report back.
* John Melonakos: Circulate meeting minutes and ensure project leads update on GitHub migration.
* Aaron: Finalize CI infrastructure setup and address identified issues.


.. _`register`: https://linuxfoundation.regfox.com/uxl-foundation-at-sc-24
.. _`replays are available`: https://oneapi.io/events/oneapi-devsummit-hosted-by-uxl-foundation/
.. _`slides`: ../presentations/2024-10-22-Recommendations-for-design-of-oneAPI-libraries.pptx
.. _`C API Design Document (RFC)`: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneCCL/tree/rfcs/rfcs/20240806-c-api
.. _`RFC for renaming`: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneMKL/pull/564
.. _`PR for the spec`: https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneAPI-spec/pull/596
.. _`PR for the open-source project`: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneMKL/pull/602
.. _`oneDPL formal RFC documents`: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDPL/tree/main/rfcs
.. _`RFC GitHub discussions`: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDPL/discussions?discussions_q=is%3Aopen+label%3ARFC
