===========================
 Open Source WG: 3/26/2024
===========================

Attendees
=========

.. list-table:: 

  * - Alexey Kukanov 
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Maria Garzaran 
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Abhishek Jain 
    - Fujitsu Limited
  * - Nikolay Petrov
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Jory Burson
    - The Linux Foundation
  * - Kasper Mecklenburg
    - Arm Limited
  * - Ruyman Reyes Castro
    - Codeplay Software
  * - Ragesh Hajela
    - Fujitsu Limited
  * - Ankit Manerikar
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Steve Capper
    - Arm Limited
  * - Rod Burns
    - Codeplay Software
  * - Joel Rosenzweig
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Roman Zhukov
    - Intel Corporation
  * - David Edelsohn
    - International Business Machines Corporation
  * - Stephano Cetola
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Alison Richards
    - Intel Corporation
  * - John Melonakos
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Balas, DorotheeX Marie Clotilde
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Robert Cohn
    - Intel Corporation
  * - Pavel Kumbrasev
    - Intel Corporation

Brief Agenda
============

* Update on repo migration and binary distribution.
* Updates and plans regarding CI from an Arm perspective.
* Announcement of the upcoming webinar on UE Camera.
* Discuss open source best practices and security items progress.

Summary Main Takeaways
======================

* Repo migration for One API source to project-specific GitHub organizations is
  being discussed, and RFC was put out.
* Considering binary distribution of SYCL-based development environment via
  Conda.
* Arm is ironing out CI issue for testing against SYCL and building it.
* Linux Foundation `UXL Webinar`_ announced for April 30th. Share this with
  your organization.
* Collaboration with other foundations, e.g., Rust Foundation, was discussed.
* Robert has implementing custom slack notifications based on GitHub activity,
  looking at web hosting when GitHub Pages is not enough. Contact him if you
  need this.

.. _`UXL Webinar`: https://www.linuxfoundation.org/webinars/uxl-foundation-drive-an-open-standard-accelerator-software-ecosystem

Key Discussion Points
======================

ARM CI Support
--------------

Arm is working on CI support for SYCL. Good progress. They are having issues
with building SYCL. Long build times and other issues. Have tested it against
multiple targets. DAL and DNN, hoping to have it within the next quarter. Need
to work out how it would be part of development process: separate or results in
a central place.


Repo Migration
--------------

Migration moving from oneAPI source GitHub organization to a GitHub
organization owned by UXL. Proposal discussed last time for moving to
project-specific orgs, e.g. onednn-project/onednn. Wrote and distributed RFC_.
No objections from projects and Intel management. Need to move on to planning.
RFC sketches out transition and potential issues. Each project needs to make
its own plan and schedule. After discussion, it appears that Q4 is the likely
target as projects will be busy with a major release. Robert is looking for a
committed schedule so we can show progress towards the goal. Robert is
transitioning oneapi-spec repo to a new org now and will have some familiarity
with issues if you have questions. TBB & DPL teams have been discussing the
transition. Robert to follow up with Timmie afterwards.

.. _RFC: https://github.com/uxlfoundation/open-source-working-group/pull/86

Community-based Binary Distribution
-----------------------------------

Andrew Richards has been discussing need for UXL to have an accelerator
platform, and binary distribution is one aspect. Robert has been looking at
what will be possible without requiring large effort from the projects. This
would be a cross architecture distribution of open source components. It would
still need to layer on top of proprietary drivers if that is the only option.
It would be complementary to binary distributions from product groups:

* Some people prefer open source, even when using a binary distribution
* Support multiple architectures for host and accelerator
* Community-based packaging, more ability to influence direction
* Potentially faster than product releases where stability is important

Looking at Conda Forge as a distribution mechanism. Package manager that can be
used to distribute binaries and libraries. Language agnostic and can be used
for Python, C++, R, etc.

* Popular for AI community and used in HPC
* Community based packaging
* 25k packages
* many contributors
* Community operated CI system that builds packages for x86, Arm, Nvidia, ...
* Package maintainers do not need to be maintainers for the upstream project
* onednn & tbb already have conda forge packages based on open source. oneapi
  products are also redistributed via conda channel

Some discussion points:

* Interoperability with product/open source distributions
* Conflicts between product and open source. e.g. installing one breaks the
  other
* ARM use of DAL/DNN is currently CPU, not SYCL. Seeing interest in SYCL from
  partners.
* Containers vs packages
* Will enable other conda packages to distribute SYCL enabled applications

Robert will continue to investigate as time allows. Want to have minimal
environment with SYCL open source compiler and nvidia support. Libraries that
are portable because they are pure SYCL: MKL with portblas, portfft. Python
dpctrl


Open Source Best Practices and Security Progress
------------------------------------------------

Roman says projects have started work, but not much visible progress. Timmie
has been working on open source best practices. He has moved to the new
license and a few other tasks are in progress.  He does not have permissions to update project board. Rod will follow-up on that.

Action Items:

* Rod Burns: Ensure people have the right permissions to move project board
  items.
* All teams: reach out to Roman Zhukov for any difficulties related to open
  source best practices and security items.
* Timmie Smith: Sync up with Robert regarding one Dpl technical questions.
* Ruyman Reyes Castro: Investigate the specific issues ARM is experience
  building SYCL 

