===========================
 Open Source WG: 9/24/2024
===========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.


Meeting Minutes
===============

Summary of Main Takeaways:

* Agreement on RFC processes and methodologies.
* oneMKL to be renamed to oneMath, with ongoing discussions on naming implications.
* Introduction of a generic GPU backend for oneDNN with opportunities for vendor-specific optimizations.
* Repository migrations scheduled for Q4 with provisional spec published.
* Progress on CI infrastructure with new GPU resources and potential community contributions.


Key Discussion Points
=====================

1. General RFC Processes Discussion

   * Rod Burns initiated the discussion on the RFC processes for projects involving major changes.
   * Vadim Pirogov shared experience from the oneDNN team, highlighting a maintainer-driven approach.
   * Importance of consensus and feedback from key stakeholders mentioned by Vadim and Rod.

2. OneMKL Project Renaming

   * Romain Biessy presented a proposal to rename the oneMKL project to oneMath.
   * Discussion on the impact of renaming on namespaces and headers, retaining compatibility with warnings.
   * Need clarity on stakeholders involved in decision-making.
   * New GitHub resources were discussed for administrative communication.

3. oneDNN Generic GPU Backend

   * Denis Samoilov introduced a new generic GPU backend to support various hardware.
   * The backend can work with different adoptions like Intel, NVIDIA, and AMD.
   * Emphasis on expanding coverage and optimizing implementations using vendor performance libraries.

4. Repository Migration Update

   * Robert Cohn reaffirmed the timeline for repository migration to Q4.
   * Encouraged feedback on provisional spec published.
   * Discussions on managing existing and new repositories during the migration.

5. CI Infrastructure Update

   * Aaron Dron updated on the CI infrastructure progress with new GPU resources.
   * Invited discussions on hardware contributions from members.
   * Planning for private documentation and handling driver updates.


Action Items
============

* Vadim Pirogov: Explore further steps for vendor-specific optimizations.
* Romain Biessy: Send a reminder regarding the naming decision deadline.
* Robert Cohn: Provide support for oneCCL spec updates.
* Aaron Dron: Liaise with members interested in providing test hardware.
* Andrew Wafaa: Assist with coordination for ARM support via GitHub Actions.


Decisions/Agreements Made
=========================

* Agreement to proceed with oneMath renaming pending further stakeholder feedback.
* Consensus on adopting a step-by-step approach for repository migration.
* Approval for developing a structured CI infrastructure, leveraging new GPU testing capabilities.
