===========================
 Open Source WG: 7/23/2024
===========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.


Meeting Minutes
===============

Highlights:

* Recognition of Request for Comments (RFC): established to improve collaborative decision-making.
* oneCCL API Changes Alignment with NCCL for easier integration.
* Repository Migration Conversations: includes updates to URLs for oneAPI specifications.
* Focused Efforts on CI Proof of Concept to enable community contributions and support members' self-hosted test
  hardware.

Key Discussion Points:
======================

1. Open Discussions:

   * John Melonakos invited open items from members before starting the primary agenda.

2. Review of Project Feedback:

   * Highlighted the need to improve decision-making processes.
   * Emphasis on public/open discussions for collaborative and transparent decisions.

3. CCL IPP API Changes:

   * Presenter: Gengbin Zheng
   * Objective: Align oneCCL API with NCCL APIs to improve user adoption and compatibility.
   * Key Points:

     * Motivation includes user preference for NCCL-like APIs and easier migration.
     * Proposal for C-based API by wrapping SYCL queue.
     * Explicit memory handling and scoped future considerations for out-of-order queue support.
     * Suggestions were made against stateful API design to avoid multi-threading complications.

4. API Spec Changes by Robert Cohn:

   * Migration of oneAPI repository to UXL organization.
   * Updates to the published spec URLs and the removal of Level Zero spec from the oneAPI spec.

5. CI Proof of Concept Progress:

   * Presenter: Aaron Dron
   * Objective: To create a conducive environment for community contributions, supporting members' self-hosted hardware,
     and encouraging development in UXL repositories.
   * Key Points:

     * Implementation of security best practices for testing environments.
     * Intel Developer Cloud collaboration for providing test nodes.
     * Emphasis on secure setup and guidance documentation for member-enrolled hardware systems.

Action Items:
=============

* Maria Garzaran: Draft and propose (the RFC utility TBD in follow-on conversations) documentation to gather feedback on
  oneCCL API from UXL members.
* Aaron Dron: Continue security and implementation practices for CI proof of concept.
* All Members: Provide feedback on CI Proof of Concept and possible documentation repositories.

Decisions/Agreements Made:
=============

* The RFC process is recommended when projects have substantial changes to bring the community along in the
  decision-making process.
* Proceed with frameworks and NCCL API alignment for oneCCL as the preferred path, with feedback integrated through
  follow-on discussions.
