===========================
 Open Source WG: 5/28/2024
===========================
  
Brief Agenda Items
==================
  
* Status updates from each project or member
* Security for various projects
* Update on public CI infrastructure
* Github.org transition discussion
* Review of best practices tracker

Key Discussion Points
=====================
  
* Security Update Presentation
  * Good job by nearly all UXL projects completed the new Security.md and enabled GitHub Vulnerability Reporting feature. oneDAL is only 1 outstanding.
  * All Security Work Package members are added to security@uxlfoundation.org mailing list so that we can react on reports going through this channel as well.
  * oneMKL is only 1 started to trying out Scan.Coverity (free version for open-source). Some of early results – investigating issues with building using icx – work in progress. Others – please plan this AR as well, all instructions/references are inside GitHub issues assigned for each projects. This is very important to complete to move forward.
  * Upcoming ARs to the Q3 and beyond roadmap: Enable OSSF Badge, Test out CVE-Bin-Tool and more.
  * Roman is working at the background to align UXL Security roadmap and Intel& industry practices. Reach out to Roman if there are any concerns, questions, or suggestions, either technical or procedural.
  * Learn more:
    * Security Work Package planner 
    * Quarterly Milestones (UXL migration overall)
* Public CI Infrastructure Update by Codeplay Software
  * Codeplay providing funding and effort for the next 6 months
  * Proof of Concept (POC) repo and documentation to be used as a template
  * Aim to have UXL members contribute to hardware for testing
  * Timeline: The project will start in July, with a first PoC presentation expected in September and a second in November. The final goal is to have a robust infrastructure by the end of the year.
  * Assigned Liaisons: John Melonakos suggested having an assigned liaison between each project and the CI effort, similar to the security setup. Robert Cohn supported the idea.
  * Detailed Plan: Aaron Dron shared more details, including secure workflow configurations, dependency management, security scanning, and sufficient hardware for external PRs. They plan to document the process and create a knowledge base.

Follow-Up Actions:

* Create a UXL mailing list and Slack channel for easier communication (Robert Cohn, Melissa Aranzamendez).
* Start an email thread to answer questions about required resources and configurations (John Melonakos).

* Github.org Transition
  * Transition to new Github.org for projects in progress
  * Each project to move by Q4, some may be earlier
  * Existing internal tools and SDL process discussions for being open-source
  * Concerns about sharing runners between multiple Github organizations
* Review Best Practices Tracker
  * Efforts ongoing to close issues and improve project collaboration
  * Work on template processes for project leadership and reviews
  * Importance of having clear opportunities for community contributions

Follow-Up Actions:

* Schedule a meeting to discuss the implications of multiple org designs and potential solutions (Robert Cohn, Aaron Dron).
* Add oneTBB to the tracker and follow up on permissions. (Rod Burns)

Decisions/Agreements:

* Projects committed to transitioning their repositories to their respective Github.org by Q4.
* Effort to improve public CI infrastructure with POC due December and a request for input and feedback from UXL members.
