==========================
Open Source WG: 07/22/2025
==========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Megan Knight - Arm

* Kuldeep Pal - C-DAC

* Rod Burns - Codeplay

* Abhishek Jain - Fujitsu

* Ed Tuke - Imagination Technologies

* Irina Topinskaia - Intel
* John Melonakos - Intel
* Andrey Fedorov - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel
* Mike Voss - Intel
* Mourad Gouicem - Intel
* Maria Petrova - Intel
* Timmie Smith - Intel
* Alexey Kukanov - Intel
* Aleksandr Solovev - Intel
* Vasudha Badri-Paul - Intel
* Ian Faust - Intel


Quick Recap
===========

The meeting began with introductions and agenda setting, followed by discussions about OFAC sanctions and updates from
various open source projects. The team reviewed upcoming releases across multiple projects including oneDNN, oneDPL, and
oneCCL, with specific focus on new features and performance improvements. The conversation ended with reminders about
sharing work through presentations at upcoming events and thanks to participants.

Next Steps
==========

* Megan to reach out to OpenSSF security experts for guidance on implementing OFAC sanctions compliance
* Megan to discuss OFAC sanctions implementation with Dolan and Rod
* Megan to add OFAC sanctions discussion to next OpenSSF working group meeting agenda (scheduled for next Tuesday)
* Megan to follow up with JDF contacts regarding OFAC sanctions guidance
* Mourad to update release timeline for 3.9 release (potentially delayed due to PyTorch dependencies)
* Maria to deliver patches for Battlemage and Arc GPU support
* Maria to prepare patches for PyTorch 1.16 release (targeted for mid-August)
* Maria to implement new C API design for 21.17 release (as non-default option)
* Rod to send Open Source Summit recording links to meeting attendees
* Rod to share Dev Summit call for presentations with meeting attendees

Summary
=======

OFAC Sanctions and Project Updates:
===================================

The meeting began with Megan introducing herself and the agenda, which included a focus on OFAC sanctions and updates
from open source projects. Rod confirmed that the recordings from the Mini summit were published and agreed to send them
out. The group discussed the OFAC sanctions issue raised by Michael Voss, with Michael providing an overview of the
topic and emphasizing that he is not a lawyer. The conversation ended with a reminder for participants to add any
additional agenda items to the chat or to Megan and John.

Sanctions Compliance and Legal Implications:
============================================

Mike explained the legal implications of sanctions against specially designated nationals, noting that US citizens and
organizations must comply with these rules worldwide, even if unaware of violations. He highlighted that the rules
impose strict liability, meaning any infractions can result in fines or criminal penalties, and emphasized that
ownership of 50% or more by sanctioned individuals or organizations can also trigger sanctions.

Open Source Contribution Policy Challenges:
===========================================

Mike raised concerns about the challenges of enforcing contribution policies for open source projects, particularly
regarding unsolicited patches and two-way engagement with individuals or organizations on restricted lists. Megan
acknowledged these issues and suggested exploring guidance from the Linux Foundation and OpenSSF, noting the need for
unified policies across projects. She proposed taking the lead on this matter, including consulting with OpenSSF's
security experts and discussing it with the operations team, to find practical solutions for identity management and
contribution verification.

oneDNN Updates:
===============

Mourad reported on oneDNN, mentioning a release candidate for 3.9 expected at the end of the week, with potential delays
due to new features and PyTorch's schedule. They also noted interest from the Barcelona supercomputing group in adding
RISC-V capabilities.

oneMath Updates:
================

Andrey said oneMath did not have much of a update. The are focused on maintenance releases at the moment.

oneDAL Updates:
===============

Ian and Aleksandr ("Sasha") provided updates on oneDAL, mentioning bug fixes and preparation for the 2025.3 release in
November.

oneTBB Updates:
===============

Mike shared that oneTBB's next release in 2022.3 would focus on improvements to the tasking API, requested by the visual
effects community. The team agreed that monthly releases generally work well for them, allowing for better feedback on
dependencies.

oneDPL Updates:
===============

The team discussed the status and development of oneDPL, a portable library for CPUs, which currently sees primarily
Intel-related usage. Timmie reported ongoing work on range-based APIs for parallel algorithms and GPU performance
improvements, particularly for set operation algorithms. Alexey explained that oneDPL's CPU support serves as an
upstream source for the C++ standard library's parallel algorithms, though this relationship has recently become less
active.

oneCCL Updates:
===============

Maria provided updates on CCL, noting their work on supporting Battle Match ARB-PE and PyTorch upstream, with plans for
a patch release in mid-August and a major release in October that will include a new C API design as a non-default
option.

Dev Summit Presentation Submissions Discussion:
===============================================

The meeting was shorter than usual due to the summer season, with Aaron absent from the office. Rod requested that John
share videos from the Open Source Summit and a link to the Call for Presentations for the upcoming Dev summit. John
encouraged all projects to submit presentations, emphasizing the importance of sharing their work within the
foundation. The conversation ended with thanks from Megan and the participants.
