==========================
Open Source WG: 08/26/2025
==========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Deepika H V - C-DAC
* Kuldeep Pal - C-DAC

* Rod Burns - Codeplay

* John Melonakos - Intel
* Timmie Smith - Intel
* Alison Richards - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel
* Mourad Gouicem - Intel
* Vadim Pirogov - Intel
* Andrey Fedorov - Intel
* Michael Voss - Intel

* Melissa Aranzamendez - Linux Foundation

* Biagio Cosenza - University of Salerno


Quick Recap
===========

The meeting focused on the transition of UXL Foundations' engineering infrastructure responsibilities, as Aaron can no
longer maintain it, with John and Rod reaching out to member companies to gauge interest in taking over these
duties. Rod presented updates on the current state of CI infrastructure and discussed the need for new hardware hosting,
GPU testing capabilities, and GitHub organization administrators. The team reviewed project updates and discussed
upcoming events, including a virtual dev summit and potential face-to-face meeting in Bangalore.

Next Steps
==========

* Member companies to consider volunteering for GitHub organization administrator roles and email John and Megan if
  interested.
* Member companies to explore options for providing GPU machines for public CI infrastructure and email John and Megan
  if able to help.
* Codeplay team to publish documentation for CI infrastructure handover.
* John to update the working group README with current project milestones.
* Project leads to update their project milestone pages for John's reference.
* John to reach out to member companies individually about transferring CI infrastructure responsibilities.
* Project teams to consider promoting the upcoming virtual dev summit on September 17th to their networks.

Summary
=======

UXL Infrastructure Transfer Discussion:   (`slides`_)
=======================================

The meeting discussed the transfer of UXL Foundations' engineering infrastructure responsibilities, as Aaron is no
longer able to maintain it. John and Rod shared that they are reaching out to member companies to gauge their interest
and capacity to take on this responsibility. Rod presented slides to outline the current state of the CI infrastructure
and planned to discuss further details with the team.

CI Infrastructure Transition Challenges:
========================================

Rod discussed the current state of CI (Continuous Integration) for the foundation's repositories. He explained that
while some basic CI exists, primarily in Intel's infrastructure, the goal is to have public CI that can validate
projects independently. Rod mentioned that projects have listed their CI requirements on a GitHub page and that a
tracking board exists for open CI-related items. He also noted that Aaron has been the administrator for the GitHub
organization and has been working with Codeplay to document CI setup and establish infrastructure. However, Rod revealed
that Codeplay can no longer continue these activities, as Aaron is no longer able to act as the admin, and Robert has
stepped back from his roles in the steering committee and as a spec editor.

Hardware and CI Resource Changes:
=================================

Rod discussed the changes in available hardware and CI resources, noting that Intel's Tiber cloud and GPU Max machines
are no longer accessible. He emphasized the need to find new ways to host hardware for various projects, secure
workflows, and maintain a knowledge base. Rod highlighted the importance of GPU testing capabilities, which are
currently missing, and called for contributions to add runners and hardware. The team is seeking organizations or
individuals to help with these activities moving forward.

Public CI Infrastructure Transition Plan:
=========================================

Rod discussed the transition of public CI infrastructure and the need for GitHub organization administrators. He
emphasized the importance of finding a new owner for establishing public CI and sourcing GPU machines for testing. Rod
also explained the roles and responsibilities of GitHub repository administrators, including managing user permissions
and security incident reports. He called for volunteers to help with these tasks and encouraged members to apply for
additional CI resources through the Linux Foundation or other providers.

Infrastructure Changes and Workflow Impact:
===========================================

The team discussed infrastructure changes and their impact on workflows. Rod confirmed that most removed experimental
projects were not in active use, and the only ongoing project using their infrastructure is the oneDNN project, which
runs tests on separate machines and posts results publicly. Hamza explained that while some projects use ARM runners,
Github now offers public ARM runners on their cobalt platform, though these are not guaranteed to have specific
architectures and have had recent issues with Microsoft's architecture changes.

Centralized Infrastructure Planning Discussion:
===============================================

The group discussed the need for a centralized infrastructure to support their projects, with John emphasizing that it
should be customer-driven and coordinated by a central body. Hamza and Rod clarified that the long-term plan involves
shared resources that projects can access, though the exact implementation details are still being worked out. John
requested that other member companies volunteer to help host projects and that attendees take the initiative to
coordinate infrastructure within their organizations.

Project Updates and Backend Progress:
=====================================

The team reviewed updates across various projects. Nikolay mentioned no specific updates for his project, while John
planned to update the working group's README and milestone information. Andrey reported that the ARM CPU backend was
enabled for the SFT domain and an RFC was opened to support the OpenBLAS backend. Mike shared that they were working
towards their next release with a code freeze approaching, which would include an improved tasking API. Timmie also
reported progress, mentioning their upcoming milestone with additional range-based APIs and improved algorithm
performance.

Virtual Dev Summit Planning Discussion:
=======================================

The team discussed an upcoming virtual dev summit on September 17th, featuring a keynote from Fujitsu and other
presenters. Alison encouraged everyone to register and share the event with their communities, noting that UXL has a
newsletter and social media presence for outreach. John inquired about community communication methods, and Alison
mentioned the UXL newsletter and web/social media channels. The team also briefly discussed plans for a face-to-face
event in Bangalore in Q4, with Megan working on the details.



.. _`slides`: ../presentations/2025-08-26-UXL-Working-Group-CI-Transition.pdf
