===========================
 Open Source WG: 01/28/2025
===========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.


Clarifying Meeting Time and Release Schedule
============================================

The meeting began with a discussion about the confusion regarding the meeting time, which was later clarified by
Melissa. The team also discussed the new AI-enabled feature in their meetings, which was enabled for the current
meeting. Megan then introduced the agenda for the meeting, which included updates on the spec release schedule, Google
Summer of Code opportunities, and a security status update. John then reviewed the release schedule for the
specification, noting that they typically do provisional releases in September and final versions in November and
December. Rod suggested the possibility of more frequent releases if needed, and Nikolay agreed with the current
schedule.

oneDAL API Specification Limitations
====================================

Nikolay explained that the current specification for oneDAL covers less than 10% of the API, as there has been no
external demand or interest in expanding it. The team primarily develops the spec for internal use, focusing on
essential elements and implementation details. John and Maria discuss the purpose and importance of having a
comprehensive specification, with Maria emphasizing its value for standardization. Nikolay acknowledges that while a
broader spec would be ideal, the lack of interest from other parties and the resource-intensive nature of creating specs
have limited its development.

Spec Updates and Release Schedules
==================================

John, Mourad, and Maria discussed the status and future of the spec, with Mourad confirming that the current spec
matches the features in oneDNN 3.0, but with some extensions in the API. They agreed on a systematic approach to
updating the spec, with experimental features being moved to the spec once mature. The team also discussed the schedule
for major and provisional releases per year, which was deemed suitable. Maria suggested cleaning up the spec when moving
to new versions. The team also discussed the need for more feedback on the spec from member companies. Rod proposed a
follow-up discussion on how different projects are working with the spec.

Google Summer of Code Project Discussion
========================================

Rod discussed the Google Summer of Code project, an open-source initiative where volunteers work on various projects
over the summer. He expressed interest in applying again this year and sought input from the team on potential projects
they could contribute to. Rod emphasized that the ideas list should be high-level and not a detailed requirements list,
as individual volunteers would submit their own applications describing their contributions. He also mentioned that the
project duration could be between 90 and 120 hours, and encouraged team members to consider getting involved. Rod
promised to send a Google Summer of Code guide for further reference.

Project Deadline and Guide Discussion
=====================================

Rod informed the team about a project deadline on February 11th, urging them to start thinking about it soon. He also
mentioned that he would send a guide and that Victor, his colleague, could answer any questions about the project. Megan
asked about the deadline for specific projects, to which Rod responded that the 11th was the ultimate deadline, and he
would prefer to receive information by the 5th. Aaron was then scheduled to update the team on CI.

Github Usage and Future Plans (`slides`_)
=========================================

Aaron discussed the current state of their Github usage, including the availability of free self-hosted runners and the
recent addition of ARM runners by Github. He mentioned the ongoing testing of AWS-hosted Graviton runners and the active
systems provided by Intel Tiber AI Cloud. Aaron also highlighted the potential for upgrading their Github membership to
a higher tier for increased concurrent builds and the ongoing pursuit of NVIDIA runners. He detailed the use of Github
ARC for Kubernetes clusters and the testing of GPU systems, noting some caveats such as Linux-only and no docker
support. Aaron also mentioned the need for more test hardware, a CPU-only test system, and a dedicated multi-GPU system,
as well as the need to handle driver updates and the consideration of minimal viable testing.

UXL Project Contributions and Security
======================================

Aaron discussed the process of public contributions and PRs for UXL projects, emphasizing the need for public testing
before accepting a PR. He also mentioned the ongoing work towards enabling all UXL projects to accept contributions
safely. Megan thanked Aaron for the update and brought up a security status issue. John announced Roman's departure from
Intel and suggested individual project security management. Rod agreed to discuss open security issues with the projects
and document security policies in a non-public GitHub repo. John proposed making this an agenda item for the next
meeting.

Creating High-Level Roadmap for Projects
========================================

The meeting revolved around the idea of creating a high-level roadmap for the year, covering major milestones or feature
releases for the projects. Megan suggested that this could be beneficial for contributors to see the direction of the
projects and potentially increase the contributor base. Rod agreed, mentioning that they had discussed this idea over
email. Mourad shared that they already have a release roadmap available on their Github project, which includes a list
of issues to be solved for each release. The team discussed the possibility of standardizing this across all
projects. John mentioned an exciting contribution from SiPearl for an ARM backend for oneMath. Andrey confirmed that
they try to keep their spec up to date with the oneMath API, adding new features to the spec before adding them to their
open-source project.

Improving Project Planning and Collaboration
============================================

The team discussed the progress of various projects and the need for better forward planning. They considered conducting
an inventory of the projects on the mailing list to assess their current status and identify gaps. The idea of
facilitating collaboration between project needs and member companies was also discussed, with suggestions for
educational or training sessions. The team agreed on the importance of promoting the collaborative effort and the
projects to member companies. The possibility of hosting more meetings or creating video shorts for social media was
also considered.

Next steps
==========

* Rod to send around the Google Summer of Code guide to project members.
* Project members to consider getting involved in Google Summer of Code and submit ideas list to Rod by February 5th.
* Aaron to continue testing Github-provided ARM runners for CI.
* Aaron to work on a process for driver updates on CI test systems.
* Rod to document security contacts for each project in the operations Github repo.
* John to add security policy review as an agenda item for the next meeting.
* Megan to create an inventory of project roadmap processes via mailing list.
* Rod to explore opportunities for UXL projects to present at member companies' internal meetings.
* Megan to consider creating video shorts about UXL projects for social media.


.. _`slides`: ../presentations/2025-01-28-UXLCIPoC.pdf
