===========================
 Open Source WG: 04/22/2025
===========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Deepika H V - Centre for Development of Advanced Computing

* Rod Burns - Codeplay
* Kumudha Narasimhan - Codeplay
* Aaron Dron - Codeplay

* Ragesh Hajela - Fujitsu

* Kevan Ahmadi - Imagination Technologies
* Ed Tuke - Imagination Technologies

* Maria Kraynyuk - Intel
* Vadim Pirogov - Intel
* Maria Petrova - Intel
* Vasudha Badri-Paul - Intel
* Alison Richards - Intel
* Maria Garzaran - Intel
* Timmie Smith - Intel
* John Melonakos - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel
* Konstantin Boyarinov - Intel
* Andrey Fedorov - Intel
* Mike Voss - Intel

* Melissa Aranzamendez - The Linux Foundation

Next Steps
==========

* All projects to review and update their project CI documentation in the open source working group repo.
* Aaron and team to continue working on documentation for CI infrastructure.
* Rod and John to have a separate meeting about expanding the UXL Foundation GitHub organization's README and structure.
* All projects to check and ensure documentation links are easily findable on their project pages.
* Alison to collect and review marketing materials from all projects to identify gaps and plan next steps.
* All project members to mention UXL Foundation and oneAPI in conference talks and tag them in social media posts.
* John to arrange for Vasanth to present his CPU inclusivity proposal at the next meeting.
* Rod to ensure relevant member organization representatives are present for Vasanth's presentation on CPU inclusivity.

Security Work Package Breakdown Discussion (`slides`_)
==========================================

Aaron discussed the security work package breakdown, noting that most projects still have items in the in progress
column. He asked for feedback on any issues with Coverity or OSS-Fuzz, and mentioned that the oneAPI Construction Kit
and scikit-learn-intelex projects were behind on their work packages. Mike expressed that his team was not prioritizing
fuzz testing due to the high effort required. Aaron suggested that the security work packages could be closed if they
are not relevant, but also noted that some issues might not come up again. He proposed using the OpenSSF Scorecard as a
guidance for future directions and suggested that the security contacts and other stakeholders should regularly review
and discuss it.

UXL Project Dashboard and Maintainer Selection (`slides`_)
==============================================

Aaron provides an update on several topics related to the UXL project. He discusses a dashboard implemented by an
engineer to show GitHub organization scores, and recommends running scorecards within projects rather than relying on
external workflows. Aaron raises the question of establishing a default process for maintainer selection and suggests
using UXL membership to create a basic chain of trust. He also proposes creating a master list of GitHub accounts and
their organizational affiliations to improve user management. Regarding CI, Aaron reports that ARM runners are working
well, but Intel GPU Max runners are currently unstable due to a location change. He mentions that there may be some
downtime for these runners until the migration is complete.

Standardizing Project Infrastructure and Documentation (`slides`_)
======================================================

Aaron discussed the need for standardization in project infrastructure and the importance of documenting testing
processes. He mentioned the development of two new runner runners and the need for more documentation. Rod suggested
reviewing the information in the Github repo to ensure it's up-to-date and accurate. Aaron also discussed the
possibility of using Conda Forge for binary releases and the need for a standard UXL release process. Timmie asked about
the level of detail required in the CI infrastructure documentation, and Aaron responded that while specific hardware
details may not be necessary, software versions and compatibility should be included.

UXL Roadmap Progress and Future Plans
=====================================

John discussed the progress of the UXL roadmap, noting that three projects had responded, while one project was not at
1.0 yet and lacked a defined roadmap. John also mentioned that some projects had shared their feedback in chat
messages. Maria clarified that they had listed milestones on Github but not specific issues to be addressed. Mike added
that they were starting to apply milestones to their RFCs, issues, and PRs. John suggested a separate meeting to discuss
the UXL Foundation Github organization and how to expand the roadmap. Rod agreed to this. John also mentioned the
potential merger of two working groups (Spec and Open-source).

Intel Project Documentation and Marketing Strategy
==================================================

In the meeting, the team discussed the organization of their projects, specifically focusing on the Intel projects that
have been moved to the UXL Foundation. They discussed the need for a unified way to direct users to the documentation
for each project. Rod suggested a review of each project to ensure that documentation is easily accessible. The team
also discussed the creation of a 'get started' page to link everything together. Alison proposed the creation of a
presentation or video to provide a quick understanding of each project, its value proposition, and how to get
started. The team agreed to collect all marketing materials for the projects in the next month to identify gaps and plan
for the future.

Expanding CPU Support in UXL
============================

John presented an idea to improve CPU inclusivity in the UXL libraries, which was originally proposed by Vasanth to
Qualcomm and ARM. The current UXL specifications focus on accelerator offloading, but John suggests expanding support
for CPUs to address the fragmented CPU landscape with its many competing interfaces. Vadim expresses uncertainty about
the claim of CPU landscape fragmentation, prompting John to clarify.

John proposed a strategy to add an abstraction layer that insulates the hardware community from rapid software
innovation. This layer would allow for years of stable API while including CPU backends as well as accelerator
backends. The proposal was to create a C API specification in the policy layer, which would decide whether to use the
C++ API or a plugin API. The idea was to support CPUs in a structured way in their libraries. However, the team was
unsure about the problem statement and the benefits of this proposal.

John agreed to bring in Vasanth to explain the proposal in more detail.


.. _`slides`: ../presentations/2025-04-22-UXLCIPoC.pdf
