==========================
Open Source WG: 05/27/2025
==========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

Megan Knight - Arm
Nick Dingle - Arm

Aaron Dron - Codeplay
Rod Burns - Codeplay

Ragesh Hajela - Fujitsu

Kevan Ahmadi - Imagination Technologies

Michael Voss - Intel
John Melonakos - Intel
Timmie Smith - Intel
Maria Petrova - Intel
Alexey Kukanov - Intel
Mourad Gouicem - Intel
Nikolay Petrov - Intel
Augustin Degomme - Intel
Vasanth Tovinkere - Intel
Maria Kraynyuk - Intel
Alison Richards - Intel

Roman Zhukov - Red Hat

Biagio Cosenza - University of Salerno


Next Steps
==========

* John to send out Vasanth's presentation slides to the group. (see below)
* John to set up a GitHub discussion thread for further conversation on CPU inclusivity and the C API specification.
* John to reach out to Qualcomm to rekindle the discussion on CPU inclusivity and compiler leveraging.
* John to organize a focused discussion with the oneAPI Math (oneMKL) team on specific domains (BLAS, LAPACK, FFT, RNG)
  regarding CPU inclusivity.
* John to reach out to software ISVs to participate in the GitHub discussion on CPU inclusivity.
* John to share the sanctions discussion topic with Larry at Intel and bring it up in the next meeting.
* Mike to send the Linux Foundation discussion link about sanctions to John and Megan via email.

Summary

Security Work Package Progress Review (`UXL community infrastructure slides`_)
=====================================

Rod presented on security work package progress, noting that most issues had been resolved or moved to the "in progress"
column. He highlighted Coverity and OSS Fuzz as potential pain points, particularly regarding Google account
requirements for OSS Fuzz, and mentioned that a guide was being developed to assist users.

Security Testing Flexibility for Projects
=========================================

The team discussed security and quality testing approaches for UXL Foundation projects, agreeing that projects can
determine their own priorities on a case-by-case basis rather than having a unified set of rules. They decided to share
best practices and positive experiences from different projects rather than establishing one-size-fits-all requirements
for static analysis. The group also addressed questions about security email responses, maintainer selection processes,
and external testing requirements, with Megan suggesting they review OpenSSF materials for guidance on maintainer
selection. Rod noted that while current OpenSSF scorecard scores were decent, security representatives should review
their current threats and next steps, potentially through Slack discussions.

Hardware Runners Status and Planning
====================================

Rod discussed the status of various hardware runners, noting that the Codeplay host runner would go offline in a few
days but that the free ARM runners were now available. He mentioned three in-progress runners from Codeplay and Intel,
including the BattleMage B580 and Nvidia H100, with Intel planning to provide more B580s. Rod also highlighted the
completion of the Intel GPU Max 1550 migration and thanked projects for providing infrastructure requirements. He
identified gaps in testing, such as PowerPC and RISC-V requirements, and suggested potential solutions like emulation or
hardware options. Rod also mentioned exploring Common Forge for binary releases and ongoing discussions with Intel about
packaging DPC++. He encouraged further conversations about release planning and naming strategies.

API CPU Inclusivity Customer Concerns (`CPU-inclusive C API slides`_)
=====================================

Vasanth presented on customer pain points regarding API specifications, particularly around CPU inclusivity and library
support. Customers expressed concerns about the need to accommodate both CPU and accelerator paths, with questions about
default targets and fallback mechanisms. The discussion highlighted the desire for a stable abstraction layer that would
allow software innovation while providing hardware vendors with a consistent API to implement. Customers requested CPU
inclusivity as a first-order discussion, with a preference for reference implementations and the ability to set
different policy settings for different libraries, while also emphasizing the importance of conformance tests.

Math and Imaging Library Proposals
==================================

Vasanth discussed the primary requests regarding math and imaging libraries, noting that 80-90% of the requests centered
around math functions, with the remaining 20% focusing on imaging library specifications. He explained that discussions
had culminated in proposals to form work groups at the UXL level to address these issues. Maria asked about the
programming model for C API, particularly in relation to offloading tasks to GPUs and accelerators. Vasanth clarified
that the initial pain point was resistance to changing existing C APIs to a new specification that required queuing and
target selection, which software vendors found burdensome. He emphasized the need for a unified abstraction that would
reduce workload and allow incremental implementation by hardware vendors, with a fallback option to CPU for seamless
integration and testing.

Compiler Support for CPU Inclusivity
====================================

The meeting focused on discussing compiler support for CPU inclusivity, particularly for oneMath projects. Vasanth
shared feedback from various stakeholders, including Qualcomm, who expressed interest in leveraging the compiler for
specific work. The group agreed to create a GitHub discussion thread to continue the conversation and gather input from
those who couldn't attend.



.. _`UXL community infrastructure slides`: ../presentations/2025-05-27-UXLCIPoC.pdf
.. _`CPU-inclusive C API slides`: ../presentations/2025-05-27-UXL-Library-brainstorm.pptx
