===========================
 Open Source WG: 02/25/2025
===========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Megan Knight - Arm

* Rod Burns - Codeplay
* Aaron Dron - Codeplay

* Ragesh Hajela - Fujitsu

* Kevan Ahmadi - Imagination Technologies

* John Melonakos - Intel
* Alexey Kukanov - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel
* Michael Voss - Intel
* Alison Richards - Intel
* Mourad Gouicem - Intel
* Andrey Fedorov - Intel
* Maria Petrova - Intel
* Vadim Pirogov - Intel

* Melissa Aranzamendez - The Linux Foundation

* Roman Zhukov - Red Hat

* Biagio COSENZA - University of Salerno

* Victor Lu - Unknown

Mini Summit
===========

In the meeting, John initiated discussions about the upcoming UXL Foundation `Mini Summit`_ on June 26th as part of the
OSSNA conference. He invited others to propose topics for the summit. Rod, Megan, and John discussed the potential for
remote participation in the summit.

CI Infrastructure Update (`slides`_)
====================================

Aaron provided an update on the CI infrastructure, mentioning the upgrade of the UXL Foundation's Github organization to
the Enterprise tier, which might allow for up to 500 concurrent CI runs. Aaron also discussed the likely dedication of a
Graviton system to the oneAPI construction kit and the testing of new Github Enterprise features.

Security Update
===============

John shared the `security tracker page`_, which Rod confirmed was still in use but needed follow-up on open
issues. Roman expressed interest in feedback on the implementation of recommendations and the potential for adjusting
the program based on obstacles encountered. Aaron and Rod discussed the process document shared by Rod, with Aaron
suggesting the use of a pull request for further discussion and minor changes.

Organizing Learning Sessions for Projects
=========================================

John proposed the idea of organizing learning sessions for member companies to increase awareness and usage of the
projects. The goal is to inspire engineers to download and start using the projects, overcoming any reluctance or
blockages they might have. The content would include technical presentations, showing benchmarks, and providing simple
steps to get started, followed by Q&A sessions to address any concerns. The success metric is not just attendance but
actual usage of the projects. Each project would assign a representative to tailor the content based on the interests of
the member companies. Mike suggested a deeper dive into projects based on customer interest, which John acknowledged
might be company-specific. The next step is to decide on the logistics and assign the right people.

Planning Webinars and UXL Roadmap
=================================

Rod suggested conducting a survey or poll to determine what topics the team would like to hear about, with the
possibility of setting up sessions accordingly. Alison proposed the idea of hosting webinars throughout the year on
various topics, which could also be uploaded to their YouTube channel for new members. John agreed, emphasizing the need
for a presentation that convinces engineers to use the software. Alexey mentioned that some webinars had been conducted
in the past for certain projects. Alison suggested refreshing the content if it's available but needs minor edits, or
making it more compatible with uxl if it's too branded. John and Alison agreed to work on this initiative offline.

Managing Project Releases and Milestones
========================================

John proposed the idea of an at-a-glance roadmap of UXL project releases. John, Vadim, and Rod discussed the use of
Github milestones and pull requests in managing project releases. They agreed that having a system to view upcoming
releases and aligning with external ecosystems like PyTorch could be beneficial. Vadim suggested the creation of a place
to discuss and coordinate schedules involving all involved parties. John proposed the idea of having a shared timeline
to view all upcoming releases. The team also discussed the possibility of using milestones as a field on a Github
project to assign certain issues to a milestone.

Exploring Platforms for Knowledge Sharing
=========================================

John, Vadim, Alexey, Mourad, Rod, Aaron, and John discussed the need for a platform to facilitate discussions and
knowledge sharing across projects. Vadim expressed a desire for a platform where proposals could be shared and
stakeholders could be on board. Alexey suggested using Github discussions or a Slack channel, while Aaron proposed Zulip
as a potential solution. The team agreed to explore these options and gather more information before deciding on a
platform. They also decided to collect project milestones for discussion in the next meeting.

Binary Releases and Open Source Platforms
=========================================

John initiated a discussion about packaging binary releases for the UXL Foundation. The team debated the motivation
behind this initiative, with Rod suggesting that it might be beneficial to have non-binary releases that are regularly
validated. John agreed and asked the other projects on the call to share their experiences. Nikolay shared that they
don't have separate open source releases, but they do release binaries for non-intel platforms. He suggested looking
into open source platforms like Conda Forge for easier enablement.

In the meeting, Nikolay and Vadim discussed the challenges of handling non-Intel targets and the potential of using
public infrastructure for distribution. Aaron shared the task of defining a minimum viable product for an open source
release of oneAPI, without any internal closed source components, and the goal of getting this into Linux
distributions. He also mentioned the need to consider how an open source release can coexist with a closed source
release, and the importance of testing components against each other. John suggested that Aaron's efforts could be
tracked and supported by the team. Aaron also expressed interest in understanding the testing component teams would like
to have in the UXL and what their blockers are. The team agreed to continue this discussion in future meetings.

Next steps
==========

• Allison and John to work offline on dividing and conquering the initiative for creating and refreshing project
  presentation content for member companies.
• John to collect milestone information from all projects similar to oneDNN's milestones before the next meeting.
• Rod to explore Zulip as a potential alternative for asynchronous discussions and long-term topic archiving.
• Aaron to continue work on defining a minimum viable product for an open source release of oneAPI and provide updates
  in future meetings.
• Component teams to identify CI testing they would like to have in the UXL that they don't currently have, and identify
  blockers in achieving those tests. That information can be shared with Aaron.

Humorous Side Note
==================

The Zoom AI Companion that produced the initial draft of these minutes refers to the UXL Foundation as the "U Excel
Foundation."



.. _`Mini Summit`: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/features/co-located-events/#unified-acceleration-uxl-foundation-mini-summit
.. _`slides`: ../presentations/2025-02-25-UXLCIPoC.pdf
.. _`security tracker page`: https://github.com/orgs/uxlfoundation/projects/3/views/1
