==========================
Open Source WG: 10/28/2025
==========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Hamza Butt - Arm
* Megan Knight - Arm

* Deepika H V - Centre for Development of Advanced Computing

* Vadim Pirogov - Intel
* Kuldeep Pal - Intel
* Alexey Kukanov - Intel
* Alison Richards - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel
* Timmie Smith - Intel
* John Melonakos - Intel
* Mike Voss - Intel
* Maria Kraynyuk - Intel


Next Steps
==========

* Megan Knight: Run the OFAC sanctions paragraph by LF Legal and get assurance that they can recommend other projects adopt this language
* John: Publish the OFAC sanctions paragraph on the GitHub security page once approved by LF Legal
* Megan Knight: Email Melissa to find out who is on the security email alias
* Megan Knight and John: Create a process or procedure for routing security emails to both chairs and project security delegates, and document it
* John: Publish the spec V1.5 mid-November with the current state as of November 7 code freeze date
* Alison: Send the sitemap for the new website to Megan and John for review
* John: Follow up on email thread about meeting with Chris regarding oneMath maintainer role
* John: Connect all the dots regarding potential oneMath maintainer contributors and loop in Maria

Summary
=======

Intel Namespace Access Discussion:
==================================

Hamza joined to discuss access to a specific branch of an Intel namespace project. They agreed that the Intel engineers
would update the branch for them. The group waited for more participants to join before starting the agenda, with Megan
inviting anyone with additional topics to add them to the chat. They reviewed a draft paragraph about OFAC sanctions for
inclusion on their Security Procedures GitHub page.

October Agenda and OFAC Review:
===============================

The team reviewed and discussed the October agenda, focusing on OFAC sanctions enforcement language. Megan agreed to
have the LF legal team review the proposed language, with the goal of potentially encouraging other projects to adopt
it. The team also discussed the need to clarify the security email alias recipients and potentially create a documented
process for security responses. Finally, they confirmed the code freeze date for spec V1.5 as November 7, with John
planning to publish the spec mid-November.

Specifications Update and Website Planning:
===========================================

John expressed concerns about the state of specifications, noting that projects have not focused much on updating them,
instead prioritizing open-source work. He mentioned that some specifications have changed, but the updates have not been
reflected, which could lead to issues as more hardware vendors adopt the specifications. John plans to publish the
current state of specifications and suggested conducting a gut check with components to address potential
gaps. Meanwhile, Alison discussed wireframes for a new website, specifically an open-source page on oneapi.io, and
planned to review the sitemap with Megan for further input.

UXL Foundation Website Redesign Updates:
========================================

The team discussed updates on the UXL Foundation website redesign, which aims to better showcase the oneAPI
specification and provide clear guidance on getting started with GitHub. Alison emphasized the importance of gathering
content from component teams and encouraged members to contribute blog posts about events or UXL activities. John
expressed excitement about the new website and highlighted the need for polished content from each component. The group
also touched on the potential inclusion of the oneMCC (one Memory Component Controller) in the foundation, with plans to
form a new Special Interest Group (SIG) and seek steering committee approval. Finally, Alison mentioned a limited UXL
presence at an upcoming event with representatives from Google and Intel.

oneDNN Release and RISC-V Support:
==================================

Vadim reported that oneDNN is preparing for the 3.10 release and is working on RISC-V support with active contributor
involvement. He noted a challenge regarding the coordination of oneDNN updates across different platforms, with Hamza
working on independent updates for ARM. Nikolay discussed the completion of several RFCs for deprecating and removing
older functionality in oneDAL, which will be implemented in the next major release planned for next year.

oneMath Maintainer Recruitment Drive:
=====================================

Maria reported that oneMath is preparing for release 0.9 next week but faces a challenge with a significant reduction in
maintainers. She requested help from the community and known oneMath users to support the project and allocate more
resources. John mentioned ongoing discussions at the steering committee level about potential new contributors and
maintainers, including conversations with Chris and other contributors. He agreed to follow up on the email thread and
connect the dots regarding potential new maintainers.

Project Updates and Release Planning:
=====================================

The team discussed project updates for oneTBB and oneDPL, with both projects on track to complete remaining PRs for spec
updates by November 7th. oneDPL also merged major work introducing C++ range-based parallel algorithms for SQL devices,
and plans an open-source only release soon, with a larger release planned for March or April next year. John noted that
each GitHub project governs itself independently and should be documented on GitHub, while Megan confirmed the
established process for delegating maintainers.
