==========================
Open Source WG: 09/23/2025
==========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Megan Knight - Arm
* Hamza Butt - Arm

* Rod Burns - Codeplay

* Ed Tuke - Imagination Technologies Ltd.

* John Melonakos - Intel
* Mourad Gouicem - Intel
* Michael Voss - Intel
* Timmie Smith - Intel
* Vasudha Badri-Paul - Intel
* Alison Richards - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel
* Andrey Fedorov - Intel

* Melissa Aranzamendez - The Linux Foundation


Quick Recap
===========

The meeting covered the transition plan for CI ownership, including discussions about GitHub administrators, public CI
resources, and the need for volunteer support from member organizations. Updates were shared about recent leadership
changes at the API developer summit, with new co-chairs and a language SIG leader appointed. The team reviewed CI
infrastructure needs across projects and discussed OFAC sanctions compliance requirements, including reporting
procedures and access permission updates.

Next Steps
==========

* John to add a paragraph about OFAC sanctions to the security and incident response process documentation.
* Rod to fix permissions for the security repository to ensure all project owners have access.
* Megan to share the Linux Foundation document about OFAC sanctions with the mailing list after getting permission from Dolan.
* Megan to share links to sanction search websites with the meeting notes.
* Rod to share more detailed CI requirements information with ARM to help them assess their support capabilities.
* Project teams to review Rod's CI resource estimates and provide feedback on accuracy.
* Project owners to document a process for reporting potential sanctions violations that includes forwarding to LF Legal within 24 hours.

Summary
=======

Recap of Dev Summit
===================

The group also discussed the recent API developer summit, where Andy and Manuj were introduced as co-chairs, and Biagio
Costanza took on the role of language SIG leader.

CI Ownership Transition Planning:   (`slides`_)
===============================================

The meeting discussed the transfer of CI ownership, with Rod presenting slides on the transition plan and highlighting
the need for GitHub administrators and public CI resources. Megan mentioned that ARM is waiting on requirements to
assess their involvement, while Rod emphasized the need for volunteers from member organizations to support the
transition.

Rod presented a detailed analysis of CI resource needs across projects, estimating requirements for CPU and GPU testing.

OFAC Sanctions Compliance:
==========================

Megan provided an overview of OFAC sanctions compliance requirements, explaining that while projects cannot prevent
sanctioned individuals from contributing, they must report any concerns to LF Legal. The team discussed existing
security reporting mechanisms and agreed to update access permissions for relevant documentation.

Project Roundtable
==================

Projects were surveyed on their current public CI capabilities:

* oneDNN: Public CI is in place with extended coverage using external triggers.

  * Performance testing for AArch64, https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/actions/workflows/performance-aarch64.yml (Click on "Run Workflow" to open the drop down to see how we can customise the performance testing.)

  * Functional testing for AArch64: https://github.com/uxlfoundation/oneDNN/actions/workflows/ci-aarch64.yml

* oneDPL: Public CI using GitHub runners; considering Azure for extended coverage.
* oneDAL: Public CI is in place with extended coverage using external triggers.
* oneCCL: <not present>
* oneMath: CPU testing publicly; exploration of extended testing.
* oneTBB: Focus on CPU, with internal performance testing.



.. _`slides`: ../presentations/2025-09-23-UXL-Working-Group-CI-Requirements.pdf
