===========================
 Open Source WG: 03/25/2025
===========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Megan Knight - ARM

* Rod Burns - Codeplay
* Aaron Dron - Codeplay
* Alastair Murray - Codeplay

* Ed Tuke - Imagination Technologies

* Dan Hoeflinger - Intel
* Alexey Kukanov - Intel
* Ankit Manerikar - Intel
* Andrey Fedorov - Intel
* Timmie Smith - Intel
* Vasudha Badri-Paul - Intel
* Alison Richards - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel
* Dmitrii Sobolev - Intel
* John Melonakos - Intel
* Michael Voss - Intel
* Maria Petrova - Intel

* Melissa Aranzamendez - The Linux Foundation

* Biagio Cosenza - University of Salerno

Next steps
==========

• All projects to clean up security-related issues on GitHub before the next meeting.
• All projects to prepare responses regarding their current CI processes and needs for Aaron before the next meeting.
• Rod to set up a shared document or GitHub project table for projects to input their CI information.
• All projects to work on creating public roadmaps and milestones on GitHub.
• John to send follow-up email to projects about roadmap and milestone information.
• Rod to consider recording/remote access options for the UXL Mini Summit.
• Alison to work with project owners on creating getting started guides and positioning documents for each project.
• Projects to share any existing getting started materials or resources with Alison.

UXL Foundation Mini Summit Planning
===================================

In the meeting, Megan, John, and Rod discussed the upcoming UXL foundation `Mini Summit`_ at Open Source Summit, North
America. They clarified that full conference registration is required, but Linux Foundation members can get a 20%
discount. The cost of the Mini summit is $5. Rod mentioned that remote access to the Mini summit might not be possible
due to logistics, but they could consider recording the event. Megan suggested finding a community member to record the
event or paying the Linux Foundation for it.

Ongoing Security Efforts and Project Updates
============================================

The next topic was security tracking. Rod mentioned that there are still many open items from Roman's original `security
tracker page`_. The group discusses the importance of ongoing security efforts for each project. Rod offers to follow up
with project leads, but Megan suggests asking all projects to report updates at the next meeting. The team agrees to
review the security dashboard and provide updates on their assigned issues. Dan mentions that oneDPL is still working on
fuzzing and Coverity scans. Megan proposes a mid-year check-in around the Mini Summit to assess progress and resource
needs. Nikolay raises concerns about adding external maintainers with merge access, prompting a discussion on security
practices and identity verification. The team reviews existing contributor guidelines and discusses potential
improvements to balance community involvement with project security.

Exploring Github Actions and UXL Processes (`slides`_)
======================================================

Aaron discussed the availability of various runners for Github actions, including self-hosted and public Github provided
free runners. He mentioned the need for assessing the health of PR testing for UXL projects and understanding what
testing should be happening for external PRs. Aaron also raised questions about new UXL level processes, such as the
need for maintainers and associated code of conduct changes. He mentioned the need to understand how to handle ancillary
test systems triggered by PRs. Aaron also discussed the possibility of an open source release of oneAPI and the need for
a standard release process for UXL projects. He mentioned conversations with Intel's Clear Linux team and the internal
oneAPI release team to understand the testing that happens internally for Intel.

Improving Project Distribution and Adoption
===========================================

The group discusses strategies for improving the distribution and adoption of their projects. Aaron emphasizes the need
to address strategic questions before moving into other distributions, with Clear Linux being a priority. Megan suggests
keeping this as a recurring agenda item. The conversation then shifts to documenting release processes and identifying
pain points. Aaron mentions that Clear Linux engineers are reviewing some projects and may have filed tickets. The group
agrees on the importance of addressing these concerns promptly and getting organized before wider distribution. They
also discuss the need for public CI testing on external PRs, with Aaron requesting information from each project about
their current testing practices and requirements. Rod suggests creating a shared document to track the status of each
project's CI capabilities.

Unified Roadmap for UXL Projects
================================

John discusses the goal of creating a unified roadmap for UXL projects. He notes that one project (oneDNN) has already
completed their roadmap, while others are still in progress. Andrey mentions that oneMath doesn't have public milestones
yet, and Mike states that oneTBB has a roadmap but it's not external. The group discusses the need for each project to
have a publicly communicated roadmap to create a unified one, with John acknowledging that some processes may not have
fully migrated to open source yet.

Public Roadmaps for Project Visibility
======================================

Megan, John, Mike, Maria, and Alison discussed the importance of having public roadmaps for their projects to attract
more contributors and funding. They agreed that the current RFC process is a good start, but they need to document how
people can get involved in the projects. Maria suggested adding milestones and release dates to their Github projects,
even if they don't have many open issues. The team agreed that this would increase visibility and attract more
contributors. They also discussed the need to transition more of their internal discussions to public Github tools to
demonstrate the activity and health of their projects.

Strategies for External Contributor Base
========================================

In the meeting, Megan, John, Maria, Alison, Rod, and Andrey discussed strategies to increase external contributor base
and reduce project risks. They agreed to set goals for public roadmaps and to work on transitioning material to the UXL
Foundation. Alison proposed working with project owners to create getting started guides and positioning documents. The
team also discussed the need for a repository to display projects using their tools and the possibility of creating a
web page with QR codes for presentations. The next steps include sharing resources for getting started documentation and
preparing for the next meeting.



.. _`Mini Summit`: https://events.linuxfoundation.org/open-source-summit-north-america/features/co-located-events/#unified-acceleration-uxl-foundation-mini-summit
.. _`slides`: ../presentations/2025-03-25-UXLCIPoC.pdf
.. _`security tracker page`: https://github.com/orgs/uxlfoundation/projects/3/views/1
