==========================
Open Source WG: 03/13/2026
==========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Megan Knight - Arm

* Himanshu Chaudhary - C-DAC
* Aniket Garade - C-DAC

* Alexey Kukanov - Intel
* Sri Raj Paul - Intel
* Vadim Pirogov - Intel
* John Melonakos - Intel
* Maria Kraynyuk - Intel
* Timmie Smith - Intel
* Michael Voss - Intel
* Dmitry Zarukin - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel

* Melissa Aranzamendez - The Linux Foundation

* Verena Beckham - Qualcomm

Quick Recap
===========

The meeting focused on updates from various UXL Foundation projects and discussions about content creation and
distribution strategies. John demonstrated a new AI video generation tool using Notebook LM, though licensing and
sharing restrictions were identified as potential issues. The team reviewed progress on the new website combining
uxlfoundation.org and oneapi.io, with plans to hire additional help for content porting. Project updates were shared
across multiple libraries including oneDNN (discussing PyTorch release cadence changes and new API extensions), oneDPL
(planning performance updates and moving a random number generator to stable release), oneTBB (announcing code freeze
and transitioning to quarterly releases), and oneCCL (preparing support for new APIs). A significant discussion emerged
around packaging and distribution strategies across different platforms and vendors, with participants debating the
merits of centralized versus distributed publishing approaches.

Next Steps
==========

* John: Spin up and share the Notebook LM videos from a Gmail account to enable open sharing, and review the licensing
  terms before wider distribution.
* John: Pick one library and create a transcript to push towards a higher quality video output, and assess the effort to
  repurpose old content for UXL Foundation.
* Melissa: Follow up with John and Allison to confirm requirements and move forward with a purchase order (PO) for the
  website content vendor.
* John: Share the new specification pages for the website with the group for feedback once completed.
* Megan: Add to the next meeting agenda an item to create/maintain a top-level list of where each project publishes
  their artifacts/packages, for future reference and standardization.
* Himanshu (Anike from CDAC): Complete the openBLAS integration in oneMath library (Level 1 and Level 2) by end of March
  and update the group after completion.
* Mike: Define features and milestones for the next oneTBB release within the next month.
* Timmie: Continue work on parallel range algorithms and performance improvements for oneDPL, aligned with C++26, for
  upcoming releases.

Summary
=======

AI Video Generation Demonstration:
==================================

John demonstrated the use of Notebook LM to generate AI-powered videos about oneDNN, showing several iterations of
prompts and resulting content. The team discussed potential legal considerations around using and sharing the generated
content, with Vadim noting that commercial use requires a paid Google Workspace license. Alexey suggested a more
structured approach to content generation, recommending separate iterative development of the narrative text and visuals
to achieve better results while maintaining AI-assisted rather than fully AI-generated quality.

UXL Foundation Website Development Update:
==========================================

John demonstrated a content generation tool that can create infographics and videos, but noted limitations in
controlling the specific output. The team discussed progress on the new UXL Foundation website, which combines
uxlfoundation.org and oneapi.io into a single platform. John indicated he would handle the specification pages but would
need to hire additional help for other content areas like events and blog posts, with Melissa planning to proceed with a
purchase order for vendors. The team aims to launch the new website in the first quarter, with John and others trained
to make future edits via email requests.

UXL Project Release Strategy Updates:
=====================================

The meeting covered updates from various UXL projects and discussed distribution strategies. Vadim reported that
PyTorch's release cadence had changed from four to six releases per year, creating misalignment with the current
quarterly oneDNN release schedule. Mike announced that oneTBB is moving to four releases per year with defined seasonal
milestones, while Timmie shared that oneDPL is also adopting this release schedule with upcoming performance
improvements. The main discussion centered on distribution challenges, with Nikolay raising questions about how to
handle non-Intel platform distributions and package publishing across different vendors. The group agreed that while
each library should make its own distribution decisions, there should be coordination on QA and testing processes to
ensure compatibility across platforms. John suggested addressing distribution demands on a case-by-case basis, and Megan
proposed creating a top-level view of where projects publish to help standardize future decisions.
