==========================
Open Source WG: 02/13/2026
==========================

Recording: A recording of the meeting is available in the Linux Foundation https://openprofile.dev/ profile. If you are
a member of the Working Group you can access this through your account.

Attendees
=========

* Aniket Garade - Centre for Development of Advanced Computing

* Ragesh Hajela - Fujitsu

* Melissa Aranzamendez - The Linux Foundation

* Maria Kraynyuk - Intel
* John Melonakos - Intel
* Michael Voss - Intel
* Sri Raj Paul - Intel
* Alexey Kukanov - Intel
* Timmie Smith - Intel
* Nikolay Petrov - Intel

* Biagio COSENZA - University of Salerno


Quick Recap
===========

The meeting focused on transitioning the oneAPI specification to a dynamic specification model, with John presenting the
proposal and addressing concerns raised by Alexey about the loss of milestone markers and versioning clarity. The group
discussed how to handle the specification updates for individual components, with Mike raising practical questions about
hosting and versioning the documentation. Project updates were shared by Maria (oneMath), Timmie (oneDPL), Mike
(oneTBB), and Sri (oneCCL), highlighting various technical improvements and ongoing development work. The conversation
ended with a discussion about creating marketing content and awareness for the UXL projects, with John inviting members
to contribute source material for creating explainer videos.

Next Steps
==========

* John and Mike: Work through the process of moving oneTBB and oneDPL specifications to a new hosting location (separate
  from the main UXL site), update links on the new UXL website, and determine version numbering, before the next oneAPI
  release.
* Maria/oneMath team: Discuss and decide on the handling of oneMath specification/documentation in light of the move to
  dynamic spec, including whether to move it to GitHub or retain a separate spec, at next week's Math SIG meeting.
* John: Send email to all projects requesting they provide source materials (e.g., existing videos, documentation) to
  help generate explainer videos for each project for the new UXL website.
* Nikolay: Provide updates in upcoming months regarding progress on renaming and recognition of the scikit-learn
  plugin/extension for Wanda, including ongoing discussions with Inria and Probable.

Summary
=======

Dynamic API Specification Proposal:
===================================

The meeting focused on discussing a proposal to move the oneAPI specification to a dynamic specification, with John
presenting the options to the group. The steering committee had already expressed support for whatever decision the
working group would make. John explained that the current option of maintaining a separate specification release was not
feasible due to resource constraints and outdated components. The group discussed the three main options: continuing
with the current system, releasing an incomplete specification, or moving to a dynamic specification with pointers to
each project's documentation. Alexey was invited to share his concerns, which were noted but not detailed in the
transcript.

Dynamic Specification Transition Discussion:
============================================

The team discussed the transition from a specification-based to a dynamic specification approach for their
components. John explained that while the steering committee preferred the term "dynamic specification" for continuity,
it was essentially moving towards product documentation rather than a true specification. Alexey raised concerns about
the loss of milestone markers and versioning clarity for users when moving away from fixed specification releases. The
team agreed to host specifications separately from GitHub, allowing components like TBB and DPL to maintain their own
version numbers independently of other projects. Maria provided updates on oneMath, including ARM backend support,
library updates, and security improvements, noting that the specification changes would need to be reflected in the
upcoming 2026 release.

Team Progress and Collaboration Updates:
========================================

The meeting covered updates from different teams on their progress and plans for the year. Nikolay discussed the cleanup
efforts and alignment of oneDAL specifications with the C++ standard. Timmie highlighted ongoing work on parallel range
algorithms and random number generators. Mike talked about the team's approach to RFCs and collaborations, including
work with Fermilab and improvements to ordered containers. Sri provided updates on CCL, including API changes to align
with industry standards and support for various collective operations. John emphasized the need for marketing efforts to
build awareness and adoption of UXL tools across member companies. The group discussed creating content like explainer
videos to promote tool usage. Ragesh inquired about updates on the scikit-learn plugin for Wanda, which Nikolay
explained is still in early stages of collaboration with external maintainers.
